---
title: Why I Switched to Hugo
date: 2023-12-28T19:59:47.916Z
description: I created a personal blog and portfolio using actix-web and htmx, a
  few weeks later I switched to this site running Hugo, this is why.
image: https://gohugo.io/images/hugo-logo-wide.svg
---

As a developer I tend to go through phases of ways of doing things. Not too long ago I fell into a phase of "I want to see and be in charge of as many of the components of an application myself," something I (still) think is really valuable for developers so that one can better understand what it is they're doing. Abstractions can be great, or they can be really problematic, and it's up to you to decide how much control you want over each part of your project. It was towards the end of this phase that I redid my website using TursoDB, HTMX, AlpineJS, Actix-Web, and Askama. This was a very fun and interesting experience. In addition to learning more about the frameworks I was using, I gained much more of an appreciation for the technologies involved in Web Development. This was a great experience, and I was happy with the result.

So why change? Well the big reason is that while it was rewarding to do, it was not efficient if I ever wanted to add new things to the site. It was not scalable, but as I didn't plan to scale it much, I thought that was fine. The problem arose when I realized I wanted to have my blog posts be discoverable on search engines. I had basically written myself into a corner of fetching posts from a database to display them on the site. While this worked, it was obviously inefficient, if I ever got high traffic on the site, I would be screwed, and there was no server side cache of any kind, so if I didn't add one load times would become increasingly slow with each post I made. I decided that the best way to deal with these issues was to, in essence, write my own Static Site Generator (SSG), that would periodically pull posts from the database to update the static content on the site (including whenever a new post was made).

So why am I using Hugo now? Well, the simple answer is that after a few days of tinkering with the new and improved version of the site, I realized just how inadequate any solution I came up with would be when compared to an existing SSG like Hugo. After realizing this, I swallowed my pride and began to work on a Hugo redesign of the site, which is what you see before you now.

It isn't necessarily that I was incapable of redoing the site to be more efficient, scalable, or just generally better, it was that it was pointless to do so. Now, this isn't to say that I am definitely giving up on the SSG I was working on, but this is probably going to remain my website's stack for the foreseeable future because even if I finish my own SSG, it won't hold a candle to Hugo in the long run. All that being said, I had a lot of fun writing my original site, and I recommend everyone try to get out of their comfort zone and implement more yourself instead of relying on other frameworks, at least on side projects you aren't necessarily pushing to production. Tried and tested frameworks and libraries are popular for a reason, so use them for important things, but don't lock yourself into using them for everything.
